Docker isolates applications from its infrastructure including hardwares, operating systems and container runtime.
Written in GO programming language.

It uses linux kernel's features ti deliver functionalities.
Uses namespaces technology to provide an isolated workspace called "container".
creates a set of namespaces for every container and each aspect run in seperate namespace with access limited to that namespace.
A Linux namespace is a Linux kernel feature that isolates and virtualizes system resources. Processes which are restricted to a namespace can only interact with 
resources or processes that are part of the same namespace. Namespaces are an important part of Docker’s isolation model. Namespaces exist for each type of resource, 
including networking, storage, processes, hostname control and others.


Benefits:
	Consistent and isolated environment.
	fast deployment
	repeatibility and automation.

Docker not good for the applications:
	Requiring high performance or security
	Based on monolithic architecture.
	Using rich GUI features

Docker container creation process:
	create dockerfile
		FROM alpine
		CMD ["echo", "hello-world"]
			FROM defines the base image 
		docker build -t repository_name:version . => creates the docker image
		docker run repository_name:version => will run the container and print hello world

	use the docker file to create container image
	use the contaner image to create running container

DOCKERFILE:
	A file that contains the information needed to create the docker image.
	is a text document that contains all the commands you would normally execute manually in order to build a Docker image. 
	Docker can build images automatically by reading the instructions from a Dockerfile.

DOCKER IMAGE:
	read only template with instruction for creating docker container
	A writeable layer is added when image run as a container.
	Layers can be shared between images, which saves network bandwidth and disk space

DOCKER CONTAINER:
	Runnable instance of an image.
	Can be created, stopped and started or deleted using the docker API and CLI.


		


Container orchestration:
	Over the time new applications are deployes and there will be lot more containers.
	Initially that growth can be handled.
	Consider scaling, managing, connecting thousands of containers like database, app etc. This can easily be out of control.
	We nee container orchestration.

	CONTAINER ORCHESTRATION: It is the process that automates the container lifecycle of containerized applications.
		which includes deployment, management, scaling, networking, availability.
		It is a NECCESITY in large dynamic environment.
		features:
			defines container images and registry.
			improves provisioning and deployment.
			security, availability, scaling, load balancing, resource allocation and scheduling, performance
			Rolling updates and roll backs
			health check and automated error handling.
		
		Configuration files:	
			YAML or JSON.
		Tools: Marathon, Nomad, Docker swarm, kubernates
	
	
KUBERNATES:
	Also know as K8s, is the open source system for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications.
	Open source containerization orchestration platform. dev by google and managed by CNCF.

	pods: smallest deployable compute object in kubernates and the higher level abstaction to run workloads.
	service: expose application running on a set of pods.
	storage:
	configuration:
	security:
	
	Capabilities:
		Automated rollout and rollbacks
		storage orchestration
		horizontal scaling
		Automated bin packing
		secret and configuration management
		IPv4/IPv6 dual stack
		Batch execution
		self healing
		service discovery and load balancing
		Designed for extensibilities

Kubernates architecture:
	deployment of kubernates is called kubernates cluster.
	cluster is cluster of nodes that runs containerized application
	Each cluster has one master node => kubernates control plane
	nodes are the worker machines in the kubernates

	Kubernates control plane (master node):
		kubernate-api-server exposes the kubernates api which serves as the front end, all communications utilizes this API
		etcd => highly available distributed key-value store that contains all the cluster data
		kube-scheduler => assigns newly created pods to nodes
		kube-controller manager => Runs controller process that monitor clustor state.
		cloud-controller manager => Runs controllers that interact with underlying cloud providers.

	applications run on nodes
	nodes are not created by the kubernates itself but by the cloud providers

	Node: worker machines in the kubernates
		user applications are run on nodes
		can be virtual or physical machines
		each node is managed by the control pane
		contains services neccesary to run the applications
		nodes include PODS which is smallest deployment entity in kubernates
		podes include one or more containers
		
		kubelet: Most important component of the worker node
			communicates with the API server
			ensures that pods and their associated containers are running
			reports to the control plane on the pods health and status

		Container runtime (ex docker):
			downloads images and runs containers
			kubernates implements an interface so that this component is pluggable

		kube-proxy:
			network proxy
			Maintains networl rules that allow communication to pods


kubernates objects:
	prsistence entities.
	contains two main things: 1) object spec 2) status
	pods:
	replicaSet:
	Deployment: Higher level object that provides updates for the pods and replicasets
	Service:
		REST object like pods
		logical abstractio for a set of pods
		provides policies for accessing the pods and clusters
		Act as a load balancer across the pods
		Service keeps track of changes and exposes a single IP address or a DNS name
		4 types of services: clusterIP, NodePort, Load balancer, External name

	

Kubectl (kube command tool line):
	Kubernates command line interface
	Helps users deploy applications, inspect and manage cluster resources, view logs and more.
	key command types:
		imperative commands
		imperative object configuration
		declrative object configuration
	kubectl [command] [type] [name] [flags]
		command => any operation to be performed like create, get, apply, delete
		type => resource type like pod, deployment, replicaset
		name => resource name if applicable
		flags => special options or modifiers that overrde default values


commands:
	kubectl version
	kubectl config get-clusters
	kubectl config get-contexts
	export MY_NAMESPACE=sn-labs-$USERNAME
	docker build -t us.icr.io/$MY_NAMESPACE/hello-world:1 . && docker push us.icr.io/$MY_NAMESPACE/hello-world:1
	kubectl run hello-world --image us.icr.io/$MY_NAMESPACE/hello-world:1 --overrides='{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"imagePullSecrets":[{"name":"icr"}]}}}}'
	kubectl get pods
	kubectl get pods -o wide
	kubectl describe pod hello-world
	kubectl delete pod hello-world
	kubectl create -f hello-world-create.yaml
	kubectl apply -f hello-world-apply.yaml
	